OK.
So we have one more pseudo class to discuss which is called active and I save this one for last now
because my favorite is definitely not not to hit on it too much.
That was a little harsh at the moment but because it's confusing or it can be confusing especially when
you compare it to something like hover which is very clear cut.
There's not much ambiguity around what it means to hover over an element that is a clear state but in
my experience students have often kind of gotten tripped up on the distinction between focus and active
and it's not really helped by the MDA and descriptions or at least not up front.
So if we take a look at the description for active.
Well first here's my kind of distilled version triggers when an element is being activated by user in
quotes.
It's coming straight from the dark.
That is not my language.
But what does that really mean.
Being activated by user versus receiving focus.
And if we actually go to the dark ages then cleared that well up front.
If we look at active it's generally triggered when the user clicks on an element or selects it with
the keyboards tab key.
And if we go back to focus it is generally triggered when the user clicks or taps an element or selects
it with the keyboards tab key.
So those sound very similar.
They are very similar but they're different they're different pseudo classes and they apply to different
states.
So to really help understand this I think it will help actually just to dive into code Penn and to just
write some code to illustrate it.
All right.
So a good place to start.
A very common scenario is actually using buttons alongside the active pseudo class.
So we'll do that ourselves.
And by the end of this we'll have three different states all on this one button or any button on this
page.
Technically we just happen to have one.
We have hover.
We have focused and active.
We will have active.
So let's start with the red button Colan active.
Just a small note if you had a space here.
It really breaks the entire thing.
So if you're having trouble at home that can be a pretty common thing that I've run into.
So button active let's make it very clear let's make it orange
just like that and let's increase the font size to be 30 pixels.
I'm actually not sure what it currently is that that might be much too big of a number but it's fine.
We're not really worried about that.
All right.
So let's trigger this to just refresh your memory.
We've got hover I've got focus but now when I actually click on something I don't know if that showed
up in the video very well I just did a quick click you've got a very brief view of our big orange button
and if I actually want to see it I need to click and hold.
So while I am clicking on this button it is active.
So again we've got hover and then I click and I briefly get active but then I released.
So I'm back to focus with it currently has the focus of the page and then I could hold down and actually
right now I have both active and hover at the same time you notice that the click me is white which
is not specified in active it specified in the hover pseudo class or the selector corresponding to that.
So I have two states at once and I can release and I still have two states at once.
This time I have focus and hover.
Now I just have focus.
So that makes a bit of sense.
And know it's kind of annoying to go over all of those.
Let's make it a bit clearer though active is not a state that only applies to buttons.
So let's let's do it to our paragraph paragraph active and let's just make it yellow.
All right.
So I hover over it nothing happens.
Tab key nothing happens because I can not have a focus or a focused paragraph.
Focus only applies to inputs and buttons and text areas.
But I can click on this paragraph and turn it yellow by making it active.
Well not this yellow.
That is a bad coincidence.
This yellow here.
There you go.
And I could do the same thing.
Let's also do it to all eight ones so I'll just use both of them separate them by commas active H-1
active paragraphs should both turn yellow.
So it's not active now it's done here.
OK.
So that mostly wraps up what I want to discuss around these three pseudo classes.
Hopefully that helps you see the distinction between active and focus.
Focus is a state that can persist it's sort of the the idea of clicking into something traditionally
at least or something having focus it maintains focus.
Whether you are interacting with it at that moment or not for example that input has focused right now
or this button now has focused active is a more immediate state has to do that yellow is again it has
to do with clicking or tapping on something in that moment.
All right.
So those are the three superclasses classes I want to talk about the next thing we'll do is actually
build something using them.
So I'm going to be mind blowing but it's a pretty nice looking button that has three different states
are actually four if you include the Baystate.
So we use these three pseudo classes in conjunction to style one button.
Make it look good hopefully.
All right.
That's coming up.